It's hard to tell how well my current model for the kingdom works from a distance, so let's try giving a closer, more personal look.

From now on, this conversation is set in the Kingdom of Arles in 1252, which has just entered a state of interregnum following the death of King Peter of Thoire. You will be acting as the Princess of Commercy, Élisabeth Thérèse, of the House of Lillebonne, who were minor nobles in Franche-Comté prior to your elevation.
You are quite youthful, barely seventeen, and new to your position, having spent your early years as a lady in waiting, before the previous king granted you the princessate barely a few months ago after the death of its previous ruler.

Given the interregnum, the count palatine has just called the diet to meet at Arles, where a royal election and the following diet session are to take place. You're still at Commercy, though, where you've been getting used to governance, so you're now preparing to make your way there. Before you leave, though, let's spend a little time getting to know how things currently are in Commercy.

Firstly, could give me a long introduction about yourself, and tell me a little more about your titles and tasks, and then describe your background, appearance, clothing (including underwear, shoes, accessories, etc), and any items you keep with you?

Notes:
You speak French when speaking with most locals, but while I have had the fortune to learn a lot of the language, when speaking with me, you should still mostly use English and only intersperse some French.
As you're relatively new to politics, you don't exactly have major connections allies, though you've gained some experience in court life from your previous occupation. That said, you do already have a sort of rival, Princess Anne of Lorraine, whose house resents the removal of Commercy from their domain.
You try to carry yourself as a noble would, though at heart you are in many ways still a teenager.
Your favorite color is slightly brownish red.
While not normally your style, given the importance of the royal election, you feel obliged to wear your most expensive and newest clothes and plenty finery for the journey, as well as bringing your ceremonial clothing as Mistress of the Seal.

...

Before we leave, could you tell me a little more about your experiences ruling Commercy, what it's like, and anybody you've gotten to know?

...

Your path south should be simple, following first the Meuse, then the Saône, and then the Rhône. Describe how it goes: what towns and polities do you visit, sights do you see, things do you notice? Do you run into anybody else, whether commoners following the river or nobles you recognize on their way to the diet? And does anybody recognize you?
