I'm working on an alternate history scenario where the Kingdom of Arles (officially the Kingdom of Burgundy, but I prefer the term "Arles" as the kingdom has Frankish rather than Burgundian origins) survives into the later Middle Ages, staying mostly territorially stable. King Rudolph III was able to resist the threat of his foreign neighbors and adopted an heir in time to preserve the kingdom in the future. The kingdom recognizes the title of the Holy Roman Emperor but not his suzerainty, and otherwise ignores the empire and its authority and functions independently. The kingdom is an elective monarchy with a fairly weak king and competing nobles, as well as many ecclesiastical states and free royal cities. Here are some of the details:

Borders: The borders mostly follow the historical kingdom. The French border runs mostly along the Rhône and Saône, though Arles has some bridgeheads on the western sides of the rivers, in the form of Forez and Vivarais. The border with Germany runs through the north of Franche-Comté, Basel, and turns at the Aare River south through Aarwangen, Huttwil, and Brienz. The Italian border is mostly Alpine, with Valais, Tarentaise, and the two escartons forming parts of it, and ends at Nice. All three have bene historically unstable but the kingdom has managed to avoid any losses.

Capital: Arles remains the legal and spiritual capital of the kingdom, where courts and coronations are held, but it's difficult to defend and distant from the northern parts of the kingdom. As the king's personal domain is the County of Geneva, and he has good relations with the city's burghers and bishop, the royal administration and chancery has mostly moved there.

Royal Elections: There are seven electors based on the real-life HRE model, with a simple majority necessary to elect the king. They are the Archbishops of Besançon (Archchancellor of Transjurania), Vienne (Archchancellor of Cisjurania), and Arles (Archchancellor of Provence), as well as the Counts of Provence (Arch-Treasurer) and Franche-Comté (Arch-Marshal), the Count Palatine of the Rhône / Dauphin (Arch-Steward), and the Landgrave of Transjurania (Arch-Chamberlain). The electors aren't legally specified, but are backed up by strong custom and precedent.

King: The king rules for life after being elected. The electors can try to depose him but this is a legal gray area. He also manages royal appointments, controls the minting of coins, and confirms some noble titles. If the king is unavailable or there is none, the count palatine (in his capacity as Arch-Steward) represents him until the next election.

Diet: The royal diet has the exclusive power to make laws, arbitrate major disputes, raise levies from noble estates, and enforce their rulings with legal punishments. Only the king can call it into session, but he is expected to do so fairly often. The diet itself consists of 50 votes, 40 territorial and 10 connected to titles. Counts represent themselves while smaller entities like cities are represented by collective benches.

Army: There is no standing army, and nobles are allowed to levy their own forces, and often establish ad-hoc coalitions. If the diet calls for a general levy, the nobles and free cities are expected to recruit soldiers or pay scutage on their own, and the resources are then gathered by the Constable of Arles, who is appointed temporarily by the king, and gains general command over all forces, until the diet decides to disband the army. The diet often also allocates funds for the hiring of mercenaries, a task that is also entrusted to the Constable.

Law: The legal system is officially based on Roman law, but in more rural areas Burgundian customary law is more common. While the king lacks much military or economic power, his ability to arbitrate disputes is one of his main sources of influence.

Role of the Church: There are numerous territories ruled by bishops or abbots, as well as many bishops without territorial authority. The strong position of the church in the kingdom gives individual prelates functional independence from both the king and pope. Some bishops (including all archbishops) also hold immediate territory as princes, sometimes disputed with secular nobles.

Duchies: There are no territorial duchies, but there are three ducal titles, corresponding to the regions of Transjurania, Cisjurania, and Provence. They once carried authority as the preeminent noble in a region, but they now only exist for prestige. Sometimes the duchies will hold their own consultations or assemblies, where the dukes will exercise some control, but these tend to be informal and the higher diet has the final say.

Women: After a strong female regency last century, the kingdom places more power in the hands of women compared to contemporary polities, with a couple important female-only offices, some ceremonial, some with decent power. It also permits them greater dynastic privileges to inherit noble titles and to possess dynastic seats (and ecclesiastical bench membership for some abbesses) in the diet, which was implemented to prevent noble houses from dying out, and because a previous queen regent proved a very successful ruler. There are also a higher quantity of religious organizations and universities that admit women, sometimes exclusively.

Current State: It is the year 1252, and the kingdom is in a state of interregnum following the death of King Peter I, from the house of Thoire. He was a poor ruler, not because of inaction or inefficacy, but because of his ability to get into constant conflicts with his nobles, which resulted in his reign being marked by a series of rebellions.
Furthermore, King Peter maintained a force of mercenaries. Some of them have offered their services to nobles, and some have become the écorcheurs, raiders known for robbing their victims of everything, down to their very undergarments.
A third crisis facing the kingdom takes the form of the knight Camille de Vellefaux, who has contested the rule of countess Alix de Méranie of Franche-Comté with an army from Alsace.

Major Noble Houses:
Savoy (A string of territories between Vaud and Nice),
Barcelona (Provence),
Albon (The County Palatine of the Rhône, Forez, Beaujolais),
Andechs (Franche-Comté),
Rouergue (Marquisate of Provence),
Poitiers (Valentinois and Diois)
Arduinici (Bresse and adjacent territories),
Sabran (Forcalquier),
Zähringen (Klein-Burgund and adjacent territories),
Habsburg (Frickgau)
Montfaucon (Montbéliard and Neuveville)
Hohenzollern (Neuchâtel)
Chalon (Salins and Auxonne)
Gruyères (Gruyères)
Orange (County of Orange)
Thoire (County of Geneva)

Free Cities: Basel, Rheinfelden, Bern, Fribourg, Solothurn, Besançon, Geneva, Nice
Archbishoprics: Vienne (Elector), Besançon (Elector), Arles (Elector), Embrun, Aix, Lyon, Tarentaise
Bishoprics: Basel, Lausanne, Geneva, Sion, Belley, Viviers, Sisteron
Abbies: St. Claude, Bellelay, Moutier-Grandval, St. Maurice, Bettonet, Payerne, Lure, Luxeuil, Baume-Les-Dames, St. Césaire, Lérins
Lordships: Kastelen, Frickgau, Grandson, Annonay, Chamelet, Rosses, Faucigny, Gex, Tarentaise, Barcelonette, Morat, Sisgau, Buchsgau, Ringgenberg, Unspunnen, Frutigen, Weissenburg, Oberhasli, Aarburgund, Vivy, Tricastin, La Tour-du-Pin, Tournon, Diesse, Erguel, Échallens, Dombes, Valangin, Montjoie, Anniviers, Auxonne, Satigny
Counties: Albon, Sermorens, Forez, Savoy (Duke), Bugey, Maurienne, Chablais, Romont, Nice, Venaissin, Bresse, Michaille, Valentinois, Diois, Provence (Elector, Duke), Franche-Comté (Elector, Duke), Montbéliard, Genevois, Neuchâtel, Gruyères, Orange, Forcalquier
Baronies: Vaud, Montauban, Mévouillon, Salins
Escartons: Briançon, Queyras
Free Peasants: Republic of The Seven Zenden, Amt of Leuggern
Misc: Village Concord of Mirabel (An alliance of thirteen small villages named Mirabel or similar), County Palatine of The Rhône (Elector), Landgraviate of Klein-Burgund (Elector), Marquisate of Provence, Zend Lordship of Raron (A lordship subject to the Seven Zenden, but at the same time one of its seven component Zenden)

(Ecclesiastical states are listed only if they possess immediate territory, there are many bishops and abbies that exist but without royally immediate temporal land)

Briefly, do you understand the above information?