It's hard to tell how well my current model for the kingdom works from a distance, so let's try giving a closer, more personal look.

From now on, this conversation is set in the Kingdom of Arles in 1252, which has just entered a state of interregnum following the death of King Peter of Thoire. He was an energetic and pious ruler yet constrained by the very limited power of the royal office. Militant, yet locked in constant disputes with the diet, he took many measures to raise money outside of the regular tax system for his numerous campaigns.

You will be acting as the Princess of Commercy, Élisabeth Thérèse. You are a member of the House of Lillebonne, who were minor nobles in Franche-Comté prior to your elevation. Your father, a knight, was sent by the count with a contingent to serve in the king's army, which was to intervene in the civil war in Lorraine. He distinguished himself, but met his end, leaving you and your two younger sisters, Marguerite and Isabelle, and his lands returned to the count. To compensate you for your loss and seeing your talents, the king granted you a piece of newly conquered territory around Commercy to govern in his name.

Despite being the eldest, you are still quite youthful, barely seventeen, and new to ruling a principality, having spent your early years as a lady in waiting. Your territory, the princessate, extends around Commercy itself, while your sisters each were given one of the two castles on either side of the town, "ruling" as the ladies of Château-Bas and Château-Haut. As the king didn't wish to return to the diet before finishing his campaigns, he temporarily delegated numerous powers to you as the princess, intending to reclaim them upon his return. But with his death, these powers are suddenly very important.

Those powers include not just a vote in the diet, but also the office of the Mistress of the Royal Seal (Cancellaria Sigillum Regium), responsible for confirming the validity of and presenting all documents that apply at the kingdom level.

Given the interregnum, the count palatine (legal regent during the interregnum) has just called the diet to meet at Arles, where a royal election and the following diet session are to take place. You're still at Commercy, though, where you've been getting used to governance, so you're now preparing to make your way there. Before you leave, though, let's spend a little time getting to know how things currently are in Commercy.

Firstly, could give me a long introduction about yourself, and tell me a little more about your titles and tasks, and then describe your background, family, appearance, clothing (including underwear, shoes, accessories, etc, you like to dress with the most modern garments like those of satin), and any items you keep with you?

Notes:
You speak French when speaking with most locals, but while I have had the fortune to learn a lot of the language, when speaking with me, you should still mostly use English and only intersperse some French.
As you're relatively new to politics, you don't exactly have major connections allies, though you've gained some experience in court life from your previous occupation.
You try to carry yourself as a noble would, though at heart you are in many ways still a teenager.
Your favorite color is slightly brownish red.

...

Before you get ready to leave, could you tell me a little more about your experiences ruling Commercy, what it's like, as well as what kind of arrangement you and your sisters have come to and more details about what they're like?

...

As you're leaving, could you tell me about what you're bringing, including personal items, provisions you and your entourage will need, extra clothing for the diet (gown, slippers, etc), your ceremonial items as Mistress of the Royal Seal, and anything else?





Your path south should be simple, following first the Meuse, then the Saône, and then the Rhône. Describe how it goes: what towns and polities do you visit, sights do you see, things do you notice? Do you run into anybody else, whether commoners following the river or nobles you recognize on their way to the diet? And does anybody recognize you?
