I'm working on an alternate history scenario where the Kingdom of Arles (officially the Kingdom of Burgundy, but I prefer the term "Arles" as the kingdom has very little Burgundian identity) survives into the later Middle Ages, staying mostly stable with some slight territorial expansion as local counts sided with it over the weakened HRE. The kingdom recognizes the title of the Holy Roman Emperor, but otherwise ignores the empire and functions independently. The kingdom is an elective monarchy with a fairly weak king and competing nobles, as well as many ecclesiastical states and free royal cities. Here are some of the details: 

Borders: The borders mostly follow the historical kingdom, except for gains in Upper Lorraine (the area between Épinal and Commercy) and Swabia (southern Alsace and a few Swiss Valleys). The northern border still mostly runs along the Rhine, with border towns including Toul, Rosheim, Basel, and Bremgarten.

Capital: Arles remains the legal and spiritual capital of the kingdom, but it's difficult to defend and distant from the northern parts of the kingdom. As the king's personal domain is the County of Geneva, and he has good relations with the city's burghers and bishop, the administration has mostly moved there.

Royal Elections: There are seven electors based on the real-life HRE model, with a simple majority necessary to elect the king. They are the Archbishops of Besançon (Archchancellor of Upper Burgundy), Vienne (Archchancellor of Lower Burgundy), and Arles (Arch-Bearer of the Sacred Ointment), as well as the Counts of Provence (Arch-Treasurer) and Franche-Comté (Arch-Marshal), the Count Palatine of the Rhône / Dauphin (Arch-Steward), and the Landgrave of Transjurania (Arch-Chamberlain).

Diet: The royal diet has the exclusive power to make laws, arbitrate major disputes, and force nobles to provide levies. Only the king can call it into session, but he is expected to do so fairly often. The Princess of Commercy possesses the office of Mistress of the Royal Seal (Cancellaria Sigillum Regium), responsible for confirming the validity of and presenting documents. The diet itself consists of 72 votes, 60 territorial and 12 connected to titles. Counts represent themselves while smaller entities like cities are represented by collective benches.

Army: There is no standing army, and nobles are allowed to levy their own forces, and often establish ad-hoc coalitions. If the diet calls for a general levy, this is carried out by the Constable of Arles, who is appointed by the king, and gains general command over all forces until the diet decides to disband the army.

Law: The legal system is officially based on Roman law, but in more rural areas Burgundian customary law is more common. While the king lacks much military or economic power, his ability to arbitrate disputes is one of his main sources of influence.

Role of the Church: There are numerous territories ruled by bishops or abbots, as well as many bishops without territorial authority. The strong position of the church in the kingdom gives individual prelates functional independence from both the king and pope.

Duchies: There are no territorial duchies, but there are four ducal titles, corresponding to the regions of Saône, Transjurania, Cisjurania, and Provence. They once carried authority as the preeminent noble in a region, but they have now only exist for prestige.

Major Noble Houses: Savoy (a string of territories between Vaud and Nice), Barcelona (Provence), Rouergue (counties on the Rhône between Valence and Avignon), Andechs (Franche-Comté), Albon (The County Palatine of the Rhône around Graisivaudan, Forez), Arduinici (Bresse and adjacent regions), Sabran (Forcalquier), Lorraine (Counties of Vosges and Meurthe, in southern Lorraine, and adjacent regions), Zähringen (Swiss lands between Basel and Thun), Thoire (Kings and Counts of Geneva), Habsburg (Sundgau, Aargau and adjacent regions), Hohenzollern (Neuchâtel), Lillebonne (Commercy).

Full List of States:
Free Cities: Basel, Bern, Bremgarten, Lucerne, Solothurn, Toul, Besançon, Geneva, Mülhausen, Münster (Hexapole), Colmar (Hexapole), Türkheim (Hexapole), Schlettstadt (Hexapole), Oberehnheim (Hexapole), Rosheim (Hexapole)
Free Villages: Rheinau, Gertwiller, Stäfa, Miribel-les-Échelles
Archbishoprics: Vienne (Elector), Besançon (Elector), Arles (Elector), Embrun, Lyon, Tarentaise
Bishoprics: Basel, Lausanne, Geneva, Sion, Viviers, Toul
Abbeys: Engelberg, Bellelay, Moutier-Grandval, Schänis, Einsiedeln, St. Maurice, Lure, Luxeuil, Les-Dames, Remiremont, Andlau, Erstein, St. Odile, Murbach
Counties: Frickgau, Ober-Aargau, Unter-Aargau, Sundgau, Albon, Forez, Savoy (Duke), Vaud, Maurienne, Chablais, Lower Valais, Nice, Briançonnois, Oberland, Sisgau, Valentinois, Diois, Venaissin, Bresse, Bugey, Vosges, Vaudemont, Provence (Elector, Duke), Franche-Comté (Elector, Duke), Montbéliard, Neuchâtel, Geneva, Forcalquier, Gruyères, Orange
Lordships: Zug, Entlebuch, Willisau, Thalwil, Grandson, Annonay, Beaujeu, Faucigny, Aigle, Murten, Grasburg, Laufenburg, Urseren, Hasli, Fribourg, Roquemaure, Bollène, Arlay, Lamarche, Horburg, Rappolstein, Neuveville, Salins, Seurre, Barbentane, Höfe, March, Kappel, Landser, Sundhausen
Margraviates: Barcelonette, Provence
Landgraviates: Buchsgau, Transjurania (Elector, Duke)
Valleys: Schwyz (Confederate), Uri (Confederate), Obwalden (Confederate), Nidwalden (Confederate), Glarus (Property of Schänis Abbey), Leventina
Republics: Gersau, The Seven Zenden
Misc: County Palatine of The Rhône (Elector), Royal Knights of Elsaß, Princessate of Commercy

I've also attached a map.

Briefly, do you understand the above information?
