GENERAL:

Something that annoys me is that this map: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Carte_du_comt%C3%A9_de_Hainaut.jpg exists on Wikimedia but is alone.
While it is easily the most detailed one of the area, with no other one coming even close, a zoomed-out version simply isn't around, and I don't know why.

At about this time I would also like to congratulate Ollie Bye for completing his The Holy Roman Empire: Every Year (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PhoYI_lqPv8).
In terms of detail the video is somewhat lacking, but it is highly comprehensive and better-researched than the majority of maps. Interregnum took a few months to develop; this video took years.

A good source for various regions of the HRE (but only very late in its existence) is the following: http://www.hoeckmann.de/germany/index.htm

ARLES:

Source for Commercy Coat of Arms (Lillebonne flag): https://nouvelleheraldie.blogspot.com/2019/10/tri-nox-samoni-2.html

WENCESLAVIA:

Asch/Aš was transferred from Vogtland (the bailiffs of Plauen and formerly Weida) to the King of Bohemia in 1387.
Charles IV had previousl taken control of this land in 1358 but only now was it fully recognized.
Under Bohemian suzerainty the area was inherited by the Lords von Zedtwitz in 1394 until in 1775 when they were pressured into giving it up.

The maps that should be referenced for this period are the following: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:C._1350_Bohemia.jpg and https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:C._1450_Bohemia.jpg
The County of Lauf holds a disputable existence. There's no formal name for this area and "New Bohemia" (Neuböhmen) is a 1783 invention. The best option is probably "County of Sulzbach".
Vilseck (slightly northeast of Sulzbach) was controlled by the Bishops of Bamberg and never entered this County, despite being marked in it on most maps.
The same applies to Waldeck-Kemnath, which is about halfway between Bayreuth and Weideh, though again the maps are hard to tell much from at this level of detail.
Finally, the Stiftland belonging to Waldsassen Abbey, including Neuhaus (just east of Velden) and Wurz (just north of Weiden) as well as a host of other relatively small and irrelevant lands.

The Egerland was taken by Ottokar II of Bohemia but he lost it when killed on the Marchfeld. Afterward it was held by the Habsburgs for some time before John (not yet blind) received it in 1322.
New Bohemia, or the County of Sulzbach, was gained in stages. It was originally given to Charles IV as a dowry for his marriage to Anna of the Palatinate, but this fell through when she died.
Instead, the lands were given over as payment for the debts of the new Counts Palatine, as well as donations from the Bishop of Bamberg.

Also, in Silesia, Siewierz was actually part of Bohemia until 1443, when it was purchased by the Bishops of Kraków from the indebted Dukes of Cieszyn/Teschen.
Because of this, the territory went from the HRE to become part of the Polish Crown, where it would stay, thus not appearing on many later maps.
The same happened to the Duchies of Oświęcim (Auschwitz) and Zator, right next to each other, which were sold to John I Albert of Poland in 1494.
One final region was the Duchy of Żywiec, which went to Poland in 1457. A map of all of these duchies is here: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Powiat_%C5%9Al%C4%85ski_pod_koniec_XVI_wieku.png
All three of these (not Siewierz) were collectively merged into a Silesian County subordinate to Kraków Voivodeship once they were assuredly part of Poland.

DREI BÜNDE:

The majority of research for this game was done on a fairly surface level, via Wikipedia or Youtube Videos.
Switzerland maintains its own official history encyclopedia, which as nice to have as well: https://hls-dhs-dss.ch/de/
Also note that interms of maps, this guy completely carries: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Sidonius

This log will only cover the updates to this game that occurred in 2026 and beyond, and will likely lack in both depth and length. Things that occurred in 2025 and before are lost.
Still, though, not much will actually be here. The reality is that this game's research comes down mostly to staring at maps all day and they don't translate well to written notes.
But anything worth noting about each map and the facts I come across when making it will remain here.

Drei Bünde Map:
I mostly based this map off of Sidonius's map of 1367 noble positions in Graubünden. Note that this is actually outdated, since I want to simulate the formation of the leagues.
By that time, the Lords of Belfort and perhaps other families had already gone extinct. In fact it was the extinction of the noble houses that largely spurred the establishment of league alliances.

I will disagree with Sidonius on one point though. My research indicates the existence of a Lordship of Castrisch separate from that of Belmont, though they were held by the same individuals.
This is very much a grey area because the concept of separate small lordships held by the same man barely even existed. But here's a map where Sidonius supports this: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sax_(Adelsgeschlecht)#/media/Datei:Karte_Besitz-der-Sax.png
I eventually didn't end up making this change. It's a sort of grey area but it would be impossible for me to verify the status of every lordship as separate from others or not.
So I think I will end up just using the original map for the sure boundaries and also having transparent boundaries drawn beneath them for the later separate jurisdictions.

So far I had the idea for two variants. The first includes only the lands that the Three Leagues had at their maximal extent, including Untercalven/Vinschgau and Misox.
The second is the expanded one that also includes all vassals and subjects later obtained. Even though control of the Tre Pievi (three parishes) was extremely temporal we're keeping it around.
The final major thing to note is that I'm ignoring all lands that were added upon the formation of the canton and had not been previously controlled, those being Tarasp and Haldenstein.
Also worth noting is that there are no official propotions for the League of the Ten Jurisdictions' flag and coats of arms, although there are commonly used standards, so I'm not technically wrong with my flag.
While the Grey League had two different coats of arms for quite a while, in 1505 they were standardized. I picked the half-and-half one because while it does look less unique, it's more different from the other leagues.
All three coats of arms (the League of the House of God has had one consistently) had shield holders, those being the "Wild Man", St. George, and Mary, respectively, though all three have since been removed.
Also note that my in-game narrative for the leagues' formations are not entirely accurate. Nobles often joined or worked with the leagues rather than rebelling, as did the Abbot of Disentis.
And remember that some places are known alternately by their castle and municipal names, such as Malans being known as Neu-Aspermont, Churwalden as Strassberg, and Domleschg as Ortenstein and Fürstenau.

To finalize, here's a timeline of Graubünden's territorial evolution.
    1335 - The Visconti acquire Chiavenna from the Bishops of Chur
    1337 - Extinction of the Barons of Vaz
    1348 - Chiavenna, Bormio, and Poschiavo ceded by the lords of Matsch to the dukes of Milan
    1355 - The Counts of Toggenburg obtain control of their lands in Graubünden, including Maienfeld, Davos, Belfort, and Churwalden
1367 - League of God's House formed
    1371 - Extinction of the Lords of Belmont
    1383 - Safien acquired by the Lords of Rhäzüns
1394 - Bergün joins the League of God's House
1395 - Grey League formed
1399 - Hohentrins joins the Grey League
1400 - Rheinwald joins the Grey League
1406 - Schams joins the Grey League
    1409 - The League of God's House appoints a bailiff to control the Bishop of Chur
1415 - Müstair and Untercalven join the League of God's House
1428 - The Free Men of Laax purchase their freedom from the Counts of Werdenberg-Sargans
1434 - The Free Men of Laax join the Grey League
1436 - League of the Ten Jurisdictions formed
1440 - Heinzenberg and Thusis join the Grey League
1441 - Cazis Abbey (a women's abbey with very few lands) joins the Grey League
1452 - Ortenstein joins the League of God's House
1456 - The Counts of Werdenberg-Sargans sell Schams and Obervaz to the Bishop of Chur, Obervaz joins the League of God's House
    1464 - Tarasp sold from the Matsch family to the Austrians
1480 - Mesocco and Soazza near Misox join the Grey League, Misox is given to Milan's Gian Giacomo Trivulzio
    1493 - The Counts of Werdenberg-Sargans sell Rheinwald and Safien to Travulzio
1496 - Trivulzio with his County of Misox and Calanca joins the Grey League
1498 - Poschiavo and Müstair join the League of God's House
1509 - Lords of Maienfeld removed
1512 - Bormio, Chiavenna, Valtellina, and the Tre Pievi occupied
1524 - Tre Pievi lost to Gian Giacomo Medici, Three Leagues formally established as a joint state
1568 - Haldenstein becomes a subject of the Three Leagues
1618 - Untercalven lost to the Austrians
1620 - Bormio, Chiavenna, and Valtellina occupied by the Austrians during the Thirty Years' War
1613 - Belfort partitioned into Innerbelfort and Ausserbelfort
1622 - Most of the east (Unterengadin, Schiers, Castels, Klosters, Müstair) temporarily occupied by the Austrians, Castels partitioned into Luzein and Jenaz
1631 - After constant rebellion, Klosters is finally freed from occupation
1639 - Austrian-occupied subjects retaken (but not Untercalven)
1649 - Müstair regained by treaty with Austria, Schiers, Castels, and Klosters purchase their independence from Austria
1652 - Unterengadin regained by treaty with Austria
1679 - Schiers partitioned into Schiers and Seewis
1695 - Rhäzüns directly controlled by the Habsburgs through feudal means
1788 - Internal split of Ortenstein into Ortenstein im Boden and Ortenstein im Berg
1797 - Bormio, Chiavenna, and Valtellina revolt and are annexed by the Cisalpine Republic
1798 - The Three Leagues come under the control of the Helvetic Republic
1799 - The Three Leagues are merged into the canton of Raetia under the Helvetic Republic
1803 - Act of Mediation, Haldenstein and Tarasp mediatized from Austria (Haldenstein joins the four villages to become the fifth)
1809 - Rhäzüns transferred to Napoleonic France
1815 - The return of Rhäzüns to the canton's control is planned at the Congress of Vienna
1819 - Rhäzüns becomes the last area to join the modern canton
1863 - Cavaione is transferred to Switzerland from Italy in a minor border adjustment.

The canton of Raetia was not the final attempt to establish a state of this name, though it does seem to be the last that actually functioned, even if it wasn't very stable.
The militarily disagraced Archduke John of Austria considered forming a Kingdom of Raetia using his possessions in Tyrol and the Trentino and potentially some Bavarian lands, though it went nowhere.

Also, working on the Three Leagues + Waldstätten scenario has made me realize just how geographically determined many of the borders of the modern canton are.
Even though some places like Misox are connected over mountain passes rather than being naturally part of the same valley, the majority of canton borders are delinated by mountains.
I realized this since the actual passages between the Three Leagues and the Waldstätten are quite poor and I couldn't find a way to make them look good on the map.


